<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Joseph Mauser spotted the recruiting line-up from two or three blocks down the street, shortly after driving into Kingston. The local offices of Vacuum Tube Transport, undoubtedly. Baron Haer would be doing his recruiting for the fracas with Continental Hovercraft there if for no other reason than to save on rents. The Baron was watching pennies on this one and that was bad.</p>
			<p>In fact, it was so bad that even as Joe Mauser let his sports hovercar sink to a parking level and vaulted over its side he was still questioning his decision to sign up with the Vacuum Tube outfit rather than with their opponents. Joe was an old pro and old pros do not get to be old pros in the Category Military without developing an instinct to stay away from losing sides.</p>
			<p>Fine enough for Low-Lowers and Mid-Lowers to sign up with this outfit, as opposed to that, motivated by no other reasoning than the snappiness of the uniform and the stock shares offered, but an old pro considered carefully such matters as budget. Baron Haer was watching every expense, was, it was rumored, figuring on commanding himself and calling upon relatives and friends for his staff. Continental Hovercraft, on the other hand, was heavy with variable capital and was in a position to hire Stonewall Cogswell himself for their tactician.</p>
			<p>However, the die was cast. You didn’t run up a caste level, not to speak of two at once, by playing it careful. Joe had planned this out; for once, old pro or not, he was taking risks.</p>
			<p>Recruiting line-ups were not for such as he. Not for many a year, many a fracas. He strode rapidly along this one, heading for the offices ahead, noting only in passing the quality of the men who were taking service with Vacuum Tube Transport. These were the soldiers he’d be commanding in the immediate future and the prospects looked grim. There were few veterans among them. Their stance, their demeanor, their … well, you could tell a veteran even though he be Rank Private. You could tell a veteran of even one fracas. It showed.</p>
			<p>He knew the situation. The word had gone out. Baron Malcolm Haer was due for a defeat. You weren’t going to pick up any lush bonuses signing up with him, and you definitely weren’t going to jump a caste. In short, no matter what Haer’s past record, choose what was going to be the winning side⁠—Continental Hovercraft. Continental Hovercraft and old Stonewall Cogswell who had lost so few fracases that many a Telly buff couldn’t remember a single one.</p>
			<p>Individuals among these men showed promise, Joe Mauser estimated even as he walked, but promise means little if you don’t live long enough to cash in on it.</p>
			<p>Take that small man up ahead. He’d obviously got himself into a hassle maintaining his place in line against two or three heftier would-be soldiers. The little fellow wasn’t backing down a step in spite of the attempts of the other Lowers to usurp his place. Joe Mauser liked to see such spirit. You could use it when you were in the dill.</p>
			<p>As he drew abreast of the altercation, he snapped from the side of his mouth, “Easy, lads. You’ll get all the scrapping you want with Hovercraft. Wait until then.”</p>
			<p>He’d expected his tone of authority to be enough, even though he was in mufti. He wasn’t particularly interested in the situation, beyond giving the little man a hand. A veteran would have recognized him as an old-timer and probable officer, and heeded, automatically.</p>
			<p>These evidently weren’t veterans.</p>
			<p>“Says who?” one of the Lowers growled back at him. “You one of Baron Haer’s kids, or something?”</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser came to a halt and faced the other. He was irritated, largely with himself. He didn’t want to be bothered. Nevertheless, there was no alternative now.</p>
			<p>The line of men, all Lowers so far as Joe could see, had fallen silent in an expectant hush. They were bored with their long wait. Now something would break the monotony.</p>
			<p>By tomorrow, Joe Mauser would be in command of some of these men. In as little as a week he would go into a full-fledged fracas with them. He couldn’t afford to lose face. Not even at this point when all, including himself, were still civilian garbed. When matters pickled, in a fracas, you wanted men with complete confidence in you.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The man who had grumbled the surly response was a near physical twin of Joe Mauser which put him in his early thirties, gave him five foot eleven of altitude and about one hundred and eighty pounds. His clothes casted him Low-Lower⁠—nothing to lose. As with many who have nothing to lose, he was willing to risk all for principle. His face now registered that ideal. Joe Mauser had no authority over him, nor his friends.</p>
			<p>Joe’s eyes flicked to the other two who had been pestering the little fellow. They weren’t quite so aggressive and as yet had come to no conclusion about their stand. Probably the three had been unacquainted before their bullying alliance to deprive the smaller man of his place. However, a moment of hesitation and Joe would have a trio on his hands.</p>
			<p>He went through no further verbal preliminaries. Joe Mauser stepped closer. His right hand lanced forward, not doubled in a fist but fingers close together and pointed, spear-like. He sank it into the other’s abdomen, immediately below the rib cage⁠—the solar plexus.</p>
			<p>He had misestimated the other two. Even as his opponent crumpled, they were upon him, coming in from each side. And at least one of them, he could see now, had been in hand-to-hand combat before. In short, another pro, like Joe himself.</p>
			<p>He took one blow, rolling with it, and his feet automatically went into the shuffle of the trained fighter. He retreated slightly to erect defenses, plan attack. They pressed him strongly, sensing victory in his retreat.</p>
			<p>The one mattered little to him. Joe Mauser could have polished off the oaf in a matter of seconds, had he been allotted seconds to devote. But the second, the experienced one, was the problem. He and Joe were well matched and with the oaf as an ally really he had all the best of it.</p>
			<p>Support came from a forgotten source, the little chap who had been the reason for the whole hassle. He waded in now as big as the next man so far as spirit was concerned, but a sorry fate gave him to attack the wrong man, the veteran rather than the tyro. He took a crashing blow to the side of his head which sent him sailing back into the recruiting line, now composed of excited, shouting verbal participants of the fray.</p>
			<p>However, the extinction of Joe Mauser’s small ally had taken a moment or two and time was what Joe needed most. For a double second he had the oaf alone on his hands and that was sufficient. He caught a flailing arm, turned his back and automatically went into the movements which result in that spectacular hold of the wrestler, the Flying Mare. Just in time he recalled that his opponent was a future comrade-in-arms and twisted the arm so that it bent at the elbow, rather than breaking. He hurled the other over his shoulder and as far as possible, to take the scrap out of him, and twirled quickly to meet the further attack of his sole remaining foe.</p>
			<p>That phase of the combat failed to materialize.</p>
			<p>A voice of command bit out, “Hold it, you lads!”</p>
			<p>The original situation which had precipitated the fight was being duplicated. But while the three Lowers had failed to respond to Joe Mauser’s tone of authority, there was no similar failure now.</p>
			<p>The owner of the voice, beautifully done up in the uniform of Vacuum Tube Transport, complete to kilts and the swagger stick of the officer of Rank Colonel or above, stood glaring at them. Age, Joe estimated, even as he came to attention, somewhere in the late twenties⁠—an Upper in caste. Born to command. His face holding that arrogant, contemptuous expression once common to the patricians of Rome, the Prussian Junkers, the British ruling class of the Nineteenth Century. Joe knew the expression well. How well he knew it. On more than one occasion, he had dreamt of it.</p>
			<p>Joe said, “Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“What in Zen goes on here? Are you lads overtranked?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” Joe’s veteran opponent grumbled, his eyes on the ground, a schoolboy before the principal.</p>
			<p>Joe said, evenly, “A private disagreement, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Disagreement!” the Upper snorted. His eyes went to the three fallen combatants, who were in various stages of reviving. “I’d hate to see you lads in a real scrap.”</p>
			<p>That brought a response from the non-combatants in the recruiting line. The <i>bon mot</i> wasn’t that good but caste has its privileges and the laughter was just short of uproarious.</p>
			<p>Which seemed to placate the kilted officer. He tapped his swagger stick against the side of his leg while he ran his eyes up and down Joe Mauser and the others, as though memorizing them for future reference.</p>
			<p>“All right,” he said. “Get back into the line, and you trouble makers quiet down. We’re processing as quickly as we can.” And at that point he added insult to injury with an almost word for word repetition of what Joe had said a few moments earlier. “You’ll get all the fighting you want from Hovercraft, if you can wait until then.”</p>
			<p>The four original participants of the rumpus resumed their places in various stages of sheepishness. The little fellow, nursing an obviously aching jaw, made a point of taking up his original position even while darting a look of thanks to Joe Mauser who still stood where he had when the fight was interrupted.</p>
			<p>The Upper looked at Joe. “Well, lad, are you interested in signing up with Vacuum Tube Transport or not?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” Joe said evenly. Then, “Joseph Mauser, sir. Category Military, Rank Captain.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed.” The officer looked him up and down all over again, his nostrils high. “A Middle, I assume. And brawling with recruits.” He held a long silence. “Very well, come with me.” He turned and marched off.</p>
			<p>Joe inwardly shrugged. This was a fine start for his pitch⁠—a fine start. He had half a mind to give it all up, here and now, and head on up to Catskill to enlist with Continental Hovercraft. His big scheme would wait for another day. Nevertheless, he fell in behind the aristocrat and followed him to the offices which had been his original destination.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Two Rank Privates with 45⁠–⁠70 Springfields and wearing the Haer kilts in such wise as to indicate permanent status in Vacuum Tube Transport came to the salute as they approached. The Upper preceding Joe Mauser flicked his swagger stick in an easy nonchalance. Joe felt envious amusement. How long did it take to learn how to answer a salute with that degree of arrogant ease?</p>
			<p>There were desks in here, and typers humming, as Vacuum Tube Transport office workers, mobilized for this special service, processed volunteers for the company forces. Harried noncoms and junior-grade officers buzzed everywhere, failing miserably to bring order to the chaos. To the right was a door with a medical cross newly painted on it. When it occasionally popped open to admit or emit a recruit, white-robed doctors, male nurses and half nude men could be glimpsed beyond.</p>
			<p>Joe followed the other through the press and to an inner office at which door he didn’t bother to knock. He pushed his way through, waved in greeting with his swagger stick to the single occupant who looked up from the paper- and tape-strewn desk at which he sat.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser had seen the face before on Telly though never so tired as this and never with the element of defeat to be read in the expression. Bullet-headed, barrel-figured Baron Malcolm Haer of Vacuum Tube Transport. Category Transportation, Mid-Upper, and strong candidate for Upper-Upper upon retirement. However, there would be few who expected retirement in the immediate future. Hardly. Malcolm Haer found too obvious a lusty enjoyment in the competition between Vacuum Tube Transport and its stronger rivals.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Joe came to attention, bore the sharp scrutiny of his chosen commander-to-be. The older man’s eyes went to the kilted Upper officer who had brought Joe along. “What is it, Balt?”</p>
			<p>The other gestured with his stick at Joe. “Claims to be Rank Captain. Looking for a commission with us, Dad. I wouldn’t know why.” The last sentence was added lazily.</p>
			<p>The older Haer shot an irritated glance at his son. “Possibly for the same reason mercenaries usually enlist for a fracas, Balt.” His eyes came back to Joe.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser, still at attention even though in mufti, opened his mouth to give his name, category and rank, but the older man waved a hand negatively. “Captain Mauser, isn’t it? I caught the fracas between Carbonaceous Fuel and United Miners, down on the Panhandle Reservation. Seems to me I’ve spotted you once or twice before, too.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” Joe said. This was some improvement in the way things were going.</p>
			<p>The older Haer was scowling at him. “Confound it, what are you doing with no more rank than captain? On the face of it, you’re an old hand, a highly experienced veteran.”</p>
			<p><i>An old pro, we call ourselves</i>, Joe said to himself. <i>Old pros, we call ourselves, among ourselves.</i></p>
			<p>Aloud, he said, “I was born a Mid-Lower, sir.”</p>
			<p>There was understanding in the old man’s face, but Balt Haer said loftily, “What’s that got to do with it? Promotion is quick and based on merit in Category Military.”</p>
			<p>At a certain point, if you are good combat officer material, you speak your mind no matter the rank of the man you are addressing. On this occasion, Joe Mauser needed few words. He let his eyes go up and down Balt Haer’s immaculate uniform, taking in the swagger stick of the Rank Colonel or above. Joe said evenly, “Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>Balt Haer flushed quick temper. “What do you mean by⁠—”</p>
			<p>But his father was chuckling. “You have spirit, captain. I need spirit now. You are quite correct. My son, though a capable officer, I assure you, has probably not participated in a fraction of the fracases you have to your credit. However, there is something to be said for the training available to we Uppers in the academies. For instance, captain, have you ever commanded a body of lads larger than, well, a <i>company</i>?”</p>
			<p>Joe said flatly, “In the Douglas-Boeing versus Lockheed-Cessna fracas we took a high loss of officers when the Douglas-Boeing outfit rang in some fast-firing French <i>mitrailleuse</i> we didn’t know they had. As my superiors took casualties I was field promoted to acting battalion commander, to acting regimental commander, to acting brigadier. For three days I held the rank of acting commander of brigade. We won.”</p>
			<p>Balt Haer snapped his fingers. “I remember that. Read quite a paper on it.” He eyed Joe Mauser, almost respectfully. “Stonewall Cogswell got the credit for the victory and received his marshal’s baton as a result.”</p>
			<p>“He was one of the few other officers that survived,” Joe said dryly.</p>
			<p>“But, Zen! You mean you got no promotion at all?”</p>
			<p>Joe said, “I was upped to Low-Middle from High-Lower, sir. At my age, at the time, quite a promotion.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Baron Haer was remembering, too. “That was the fracas that brought on the howl from the Sovs. They claimed those <i>mitrailleuse</i> were post-1900 and violated the Universal Disarmament Pact. Yes, I recall that. Douglas-Boeing was able to prove that the weapon was used by the French as far back as the Franco-Prussian War.” He eyed Joe with new interest now. “Sit down, captain. You too, Balt. Do you realize that Captain Mauser is the only recruit of officer rank we’ve had today?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” the younger Haer said dryly. “However, it’s too late to call the fracas off now. Hovercraft wouldn’t stand for it, and the Category Military Department would back them. Our only alternative is unconditional surrender, and you know what that means.”</p>
			<p>“It means our family would probably be forced from control of the firm,” the older man growled. “But nobody has suggested surrender on any terms. Nobody, thus far.” He glared at his officer son who took it with an easy shrug and swung a leg over the edge of his father’s desk in the way of a seat.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser found a chair and lowered himself into it. Evidently, the foppish Balt Haer had no illusions about the spot his father had got the family corporation into. And the younger man was right, of course.</p>
			<p>But the Baron wasn’t blind to reality any more than he was a coward. He dismissed Balt Haer’s defeatism from his mind and came back to Joe Mauser. “As I say, you’re the only officer recruit today. Why?”</p>
			<p>Joe said evenly, “I wouldn’t know, sir. Perhaps freelance Category Military men are occupied elsewhere. There’s always a shortage of trained officers.”</p>
			<p>Baron Haer was waggling a finger negatively. “That’s not what I mean, captain. You are an old hand. This is your category and you must know it well. Then why are <i>you</i> signing up with Vacuum Tube Transport rather than Hovercraft?”</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser looked at him for a moment without speaking.</p>
			<p>“Come, come, captain. I am an old hand too, in my category, and not a fool. I realize there is scarcely a soul in the West-world that expects anything but disaster for my colors. Pay rates have been widely posted. I can offer only five common shares of Vacuum Tube for a Rank Captain, win or lose. Hovercraft is doubling that, and can pick and choose among the best officers in the hemisphere.”</p>
			<p>Joe said softly, “I have all the shares I need.”</p>
			<p>Balt Haer had been looking back and forth between his father and the newcomer and becoming obviously more puzzled. He put in, “Well, what in Zen motivates you if it isn’t the stock we offer?”</p>
			<p>Joe glanced at the younger Haer to acknowledge the question but he spoke to the Baron. “Sir, like you said, you’re no fool. However, you’ve been sucked in, this time. When you took on Hovercraft, you were thinking in terms of a regional dispute. You wanted to run one of your vacuum tube deals up to Fairbanks from Edmonton. You were expecting a minor fracas, involving possibly five thousand men. You never expected Hovercraft to parlay it up, through their connections in the Category Military Department, to a divisional magnitude fracas which you simply aren’t large enough to afford. But Hovercraft was getting sick of your corporation. You’ve been nicking away at them too long. So they decided to do you in. They’ve hired Marshal Cogswell and the best combat officers in North America, and they’re hiring the most competent veterans they can find. Every fracas buff who watches Telly, figures you’ve had it. They’ve been watching you come up the aggressive way, the hard way, for a long time, but now they’re all going to be sitting on the edges of their sofas waiting for you to get it.”</p>
			<p>Baron Haer’s heavy face had hardened as Joe Mauser went on relentlessly. He growled, “Is this what everyone thinks?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Everyone intelligent enough to have an opinion.” Joe made a motion of his head to the outer offices where the recruiting was proceeding. “Those men out there are rejects from Catskill, where old Baron Zwerdling is recruiting. Either that or they’re inexperienced Low-Lowers, too stupid to realize they’re sticking their necks out. Not one man in ten is a veteran. And when things begin to pickle, you want veterans.”</p>
			<p>Baron Malcolm Haer sat back in his chair and stared coldly at Captain Joe Mauser. He said, “At first I was moderately surprised that an old time mercenary like yourself should choose my uniform, rather than Zwerdling’s. Now I am increasingly mystified about motivation. So all over again I ask you, captain: Why are you requesting a commission in my forces which you seem convinced will meet disaster?”</p>
			<p>Joe wet his lips carefully. “I think I know a way you can win.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
