<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<p>His permanent military rank the Haers had no way to alter, but they were short enough of competent officers that they gave him an acting rating and pay scale of major and command of a squadron of cavalry. Joe Mauser wasn’t interested in a cavalry command this fracas, but he said nothing. Immediately, he had to size up the situation; it wasn’t time as yet to reveal the big scheme. And, meanwhile, they could use him to whip the Rank Privates into shape.</p>
			<p>He had left the offices of Baron Haer to go through the red tape involved in being signed up on a temporary basis in the Vacuum Tube Transport forces, and reentered the confusion of the outer offices where the Lowers were being processed and given medicals. He reentered in time to run into a Telly team which was doing a live broadcast.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser remembered the news reporter who headed the team. He’d run into him two or three times in fracases. As a matter of fact, although Joe held the standard Military Category prejudices against Telly, he had a basic respect for this particular newsman. On the occasions he’d seen him before, the fellow was hot in the midst of the action even when things were in the dill. He took as many chances as did the average combatant, and you can’t ask for more than that.</p>
			<p>The other knew him, too, of course. It was part of his job to be able to spot the celebrities and near celebrities. He zeroed in on Joe now, making flicks of his hand to direct the cameras. Joe, of course, was fully aware of the value of Telly and was glad to cooperate.</p>
			<p>“Captain! Captain Mauser, isn’t it? Joe Mauser who held out for four days in the swamps of Louisiana with a single company while his ranking officers reformed behind him.”</p>
			<p>That was one way of putting it, but both Joe and the newscaster who had covered the debacle knew the reality of the situation. When the front had collapsed, his commanders⁠—of Upper caste, of course⁠—had hauled out, leaving him to fight a delaying action while they mended their fences with the enemy, coming to the best terms possible. Yes, that had been the United Oil versus Allied Petroleum fracas, and Joe had emerged with little either in glory or pelf.</p>
			<p>The average fracas fan wasn’t on an intellectual level to appreciate anything other than victory. The good guys win, the bad guys lose⁠—that’s obvious, isn’t it? Not one out of ten Telly followers of the fracases was interested in a well-conducted retreat or holding action. They wanted blood, lots of it, and they identified with the winning side.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser wasn’t particularly bitter about this aspect. It was part of his way of life. In fact, his pet peeve was the <i>real</i> buff. The type, man or woman, who could remember every fracas you’d ever been in, every time you’d copped one, and how long you’d been in the hospital. Fans who could remember, even better than you could, every time the situation had pickled on you and you’d had to fight your way out as best you could. They’d tell you about it, their eyes gleaming, sometimes a slightest trickle of spittle at the sides of their mouths. They usually wanted an autograph, or a souvenir such as a uniform button.</p>
			<p>Now Joe said to the Telly reporter, “That’s right, Captain Mauser. Acting major, in this fracas, ah⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Freddy. Freddy Soligen. You remember me, captain⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Of course I do, Freddy. We’ve been in the dill, side by side, more than once, and even when I was too scared to use my side arm, you’d be scanning away with your camera.”</p>
			<p>“Ha ha, listen to the captain, folks. I hope my boss is tuned in. But seriously, Captain Mauser, what do you think the chances of Vacuum Tube Transport are in this fracas?”</p>
			<p>Joe looked into the camera lens, earnestly. “The best, of course, or I wouldn’t have signed up with Baron Haer, Freddy. Justice triumphs, and anybody who is familiar with the issues in this fracas, knows that Baron Haer is on the side of true right.”</p>
			<p>Freddy said, holding any sarcasm he must have felt, “What would you say the issues were, captain?”</p>
			<p>“The basic North American free enterprise right to compete. Hovercraft has held a near monopoly in transport to Fairbanks. Vacuum Tube Transport wishes to lower costs and bring the consumers of Fairbanks better service through running a vacuum tube to that area. What could be more in the traditions of the West-world? Continental Hovercraft stands in the way and it is they who have demanded of the Category Military Department a trial by arms. On the face of it, justice is on the side of Baron Haer.”</p>
			<p>Freddy Soligen said into the camera, “Well, all you good people of the Telly world, that’s an able summation the captain has made, but it certainly doesn’t jibe with the words of Baron Zwerdling we heard this morning, does it? However, justice triumphs and we’ll see what the field of combat will have to offer. Thank you, thank you very much, Captain Mauser. All of us, all of us tuned in today, hope that you personally will run into no dill in this fracas.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, Freddy. Thanks all,” Joe said into the camera, before turning away. He wasn’t particularly keen about this part of the job, but you couldn’t underrate the importance of pleasing the buffs. In the long run it was your career, your chances for promotion both in military rank and ultimately in caste. It was the way the fans took you up, boosted you, idolized you, worshipped you if you really made it. He, Joe Mauser, was only a minor celebrity, he appreciated every chance he had to be interviewed by such a popular reporter as Freddy Soligen.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Even as he turned, he spotted the four men with whom he’d had his spat earlier. The little fellow was still to the fore. Evidently, the others had decided the one place extra that he represented wasn’t worth the trouble he’d put in their way defending it.</p>
			<p>On an impulse he stepped up to the small man who began a grin of recognition, a grin that transformed his feisty face. A revelation of an inner warmth beyond average in a world which had lost much of its human warmth.</p>
			<p>Joe said, “Like a job, soldier?”</p>
			<p>“Name’s Max. Max Mainz. Sure I want a job. That’s why I’m in this everlasting line.”</p>
			<p>Joe said, “First fracas for you, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, but I had basic training in school.”</p>
			<p>“What do you weigh, Max?”</p>
			<p>Max’s face soured. “About one twenty.”</p>
			<p>“Did you check out on semaphore in school?”</p>
			<p>“Well, sure. I’m Category Food, Subdivision Cooking, Branch Chef, but, like I say, I took basic military training, like most everybody else.”</p>
			<p>“I’m Captain Joe Mauser. How’d you like to be my batman?”</p>
			<p>Max screwed up his already not overly handsome face. “Gee, I don’t know. I kinda joined up to see some action. Get into the dill. You know what I mean.”</p>
			<p>Joe said dryly, “See here, Mainz, you’ll probably find more pickled situations next to me than you’ll want⁠—and you’ll come out alive.”</p>
			<p>The recruiting sergeant looked up from the desk. It was Max Mainz’s turn to be processed. The sergeant said, “Lad, take a good opportunity when it drops in your lap. The captain is one of the best in the field. You’ll learn more, get better chances for promotion, if you stick with him.”</p>
			<p>Joe couldn’t remember ever having run into the sergeant before, but he said, “Thanks, sergeant.”</p>
			<p>The other said, evidently realizing Joe didn’t recognize him, “We were together on the Chihuahua Reservation, on the jurisdictional fracas between the United Miners and the Teamsters, sir.”</p>
			<p>It had been almost fifteen years ago. About all that Joe Mauser remembered of that fracas was the abnormal number of casualties they’d taken. His side had lost, but from this distance in time Joe couldn’t even remember what force he’d been with. But now he said, “That’s right. I thought I recognized you, sergeant.”</p>
			<p>“It was my first fracas, sir.” The sergeant went businesslike. “If you want I should hustle this lad though, captain⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Please do, sergeant.” Joe added to Max, “I’m not sure where my billet will be. When you’re through all this, locate the officer’s mess and wait there for me.”</p>
			<p>“Well, O.K.,” Max said doubtfully, still scowling but evidently a servant of an officer, if he wanted to be or not.</p>
			<p>“Sir,” the sergeant added ominously. “If you’ve had basic, you know enough how to address an officer.”</p>
			<p>“Well, yessir,” Max said hurriedly.</p>
			<p>Joe began to turn away, but then spotted the man immediately behind Max Mainz. He was one of the three with whom Joe had tangled earlier, the one who’d obviously had previous combat experience. He pointed the man out to the sergeant. “You’d better give this lad at least temporary rank of corporal. He’s a veteran and we’re short of veterans.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant said, “Yes, sir. We sure are.” Joe’s former foe looked properly thankful.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Joe Mauser finished off his own red tape and headed for the street to locate a military tailor who could do him up a set of the Haer kilts and fill his other dress requirements. As he went, he wondered vaguely just how many different uniforms he had worn in his time.</p>
			<p>In a career as long as his own from time to time you took semipermanent positions in bodyguards, company police, or possibly the permanent combat troops of this corporation or that. But largely, if you were ambitious, you signed up for the fracases and that meant into a uniform and out of it again in as short a period as a couple of weeks.</p>
			<p>At the door he tried to move aside but was too slow for the quick moving young woman who caromed off him. He caught her arm to prevent her from stumbling. She looked at him with less than thanks.</p>
			<p>Joe took the blame for the collision. “Sorry,” he said. “I’m afraid I didn’t see you, Miss.”</p>
			<p>“Obviously,” she said coldly. Her eyes went up and down him, and for a moment he wondered where he had seen her before. Somewhere, he was sure.</p>
			<p>She was dressed as they dress who have never considered cost and she had an elusive beauty which would have been even the more hadn’t her face projected quite such a serious outlook. Her features were more delicate than those to which he was usually attracted. Her lips were less full, but still⁠—He was reminded of the classic ideal of the British Romantic Period, the women sung of by Byron and Keats, Shelly and Moore.</p>
			<p>She said, “Is there any particular reason why you should be staring at me, <abbr>Mr.</abbr>⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Captain Mauser,” Joe said hurriedly. “I’m afraid I’ve been rude, Miss⁠—Well, I thought I recognized you.”</p>
			<p>She took in his civilian dress, typed it automatically, and came to an erroneous conclusion. She said, “Captain? You mean that with everyone else I know drawing down ranks from Lieutenant Colonel to Brigadier General, you can’t make anything better than Captain?”</p>
			<p>Joe winced. He said carefully, “I came up from the ranks, Miss. Captain is quite an achievement, believe me.”</p>
			<p>“Up from the ranks!” She took in his clothes again. “You mean you’re a Middle? You neither talk nor look like a Middle, captain.” She used the caste rating as though it was not <i>quite</i> a derogatory term.</p>
			<p>Not that she meant to be deliberately insulting, Joe knew, wearily. How well he knew. It was simply born in her. As once a well-educated aristocracy had, not necessarily unkindly, named their status inferiors <i>niggers</i>; or other aristocrats, in another area of the country, had named theirs <i>greasers</i>. Yes, how well he knew.</p>
			<p>He said very evenly, “Mid-Middle now, Miss. However, I was born in the Lower castes.”</p>
			<p>An eyebrow went up. “Zen! You must have put in many an hour studying. You talk like an Upper, captain.” She dropped all interest in him and turned to resume her journey.</p>
			<p>“Just a moment,” Joe said. “You can’t go in there, Miss⁠—”</p>
			<p>Her eyebrows went up again. “The name is Haer,” she said. “Why can’t I go in here, captain?”</p>
			<p>Now it came to him why he had thought he recognized her. She had basic features similar to those of that overbred poppycock, Balt Haer.</p>
			<p>“Sorry,” Joe said. “I suppose under the circumstances, you can. I was about to tell you that they’re recruiting with lads running around half clothed. Medical inspections, that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>She made a noise through her nose and said over her shoulder, even as she sailed on. “Besides being a Haer, I’m an M.D., captain. At the ludicrous sight of a man shuffling about in his shorts, I seldom blush.”</p>
			<p>She was gone.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser looked after her. “I’ll bet you don’t,” he muttered.</p>
			<p>Had she waited a few minutes he could have explained his Upper accent and his unlikely education. When you’d copped one you had plenty of opportunity in hospital beds to read, to study, to contemplate⁠—and to fester away in your own schemes of rebellion against fate. And Joe had copped many in his time.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
