<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<p>By the time Joe Mauser called it a day and retired to his quarters he was exhausted to the point where his basic dissatisfaction with the trade he followed was heavily upon him.</p>
			<p>He had met his immediate senior officers, largely dilettante Uppers with precious little field experience, and was unimpressed. And he’d met his own junior officers and was shocked. By the looks of things at this stage, Captain Mauser’s squadron would be going into this fracas both undermanned with Rank Privates and with junior officers composed largely of temporarily promoted noncoms. If this was typical of Baron Haer’s total force, then Balt Haer had been correct; unconditional surrender was to be considered, no matter how disastrous to Haer family fortunes.</p>
			<p>Joe had been able to take immediate delivery of one kilted uniform. Now, inside his quarters, he began stripping out of his jacket. Somewhat to his surprise, the small man he had selected earlier in the day to be his batman entered from an inner room, also resplendent in the Haer uniform and obviously happily so.</p>
			<p>He helped his superior out of the jacket with an ease that held no subservience but at the same time was correctly respectful. You’d have thought him a batman specially trained.</p>
			<p>Joe grunted, “Max, isn’t it? I’d forgotten about you. Glad you found our billet all right.”</p>
			<p>Max said, “Yes, sir. Would the captain like a drink? I picked up a bottle of applejack. Applejack’s the drink around here, sir. Makes a topnotch highball with ginger ale and a twist of lemon.”</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser looked at him. Evidently his tapping this man for orderly had been sheer fortune. Well, Joe Mauser could use some good luck on this job. He hoped it didn’t end with selecting a batman.</p>
			<p>Joe said, “An applejack highball sounds wonderful, Max. Got ice?”</p>
			<p>“Of course, sir.” Max left the small room.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser and his officers were billeted in what had once been a motel on the old road between Kingston and Woodstock. There was a shower and a tiny kitchenette in each cottage. That was one advantage in a fracas held in an area where there were plenty of facilities. Such military reservations as that of the Little Big Horn in Montana and particularly some of those in the South West and Mexico, were another thing.</p>
			<p>Joe lowered himself into the room’s easy-chair and bent down to untie his laces. He kicked his shoes off. He could use that drink. He began wondering all over again if his scheme for winning this Vacuum Tube Transport versus Continental Hovercraft fracas would come off. The more he saw of Baron Haer’s inadequate forces, the more he wondered. He hadn’t expected Vacuum Tube to be in <i>this</i> bad a shape. Baron Haer had been riding high for so long that one would have thought his reputation for victory would have lured many a veteran to his colors. Evidently they hadn’t bitten. The word was out all right.</p>
			<p>Max Mainz returned with the drink.</p>
			<p>Joe said, “You had one yourself?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>Joe said, “Well, Zen, go get yourself one and come on back and sit down. Let’s get acquainted.”</p>
			<p>“Well, yessir.” Max disappeared back into the kitchenette to return almost immediately. The little man slid into a chair, drink awkwardly in hand.</p>
			<p>His superior sized him up, all over again. Not much more than a kid, really. Surprisingly aggressive for a Lower who must have been raised from childhood in a trank-bemused, Telly-entertained household. The fact that he’d broken away from that environment at all was to his credit, it was considerably easier to conform. But then it is always easier to conform, to run with the herd, as Joe well knew. His own break hadn’t been an easy one. “Relax,” he said now.</p>
			<p>Max said, “Well, this is my first day.”</p>
			<p>“I know. And you’ve been seeing Telly shows all your life showing how an orderly conducts himself in the presence of his superior.” Joe took another pull and yawned. “Well, forget about it. With any man who goes into a fracas with me, I like to be on close terms. When things pickle, I want him to be on my side, not nursing some peeve brought on by his officer trying to give him an inferiority complex.”</p>
			<p>The little man was eying him in surprise.</p>
			<p>Joe finished his highball and came to his feet to get another one. He said, “On two occasions I’ve had an orderly save my life. I’m not taking any chances but that there might be a third opportunity.”</p>
			<p>“Well, yessir. Does the captain want me to get him⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’ll get it,” Joe said.</p>
			<p>When he’d returned to his chair, he said, “Why did you join up with Baron Haer, Max?”</p>
			<p>The other shrugged it off. “The usual. The excitement. The idea of all those fans watching me on Telly. The share of common stock I’ll get. And, you never know, maybe a promotion in caste. I wouldn’t mind making Upper-Lower.”</p>
			<p>Joe said sourly, “One fracas and you’ll be over that desire to have the buffs watching you on Telly while they sit around in their front rooms sucking on tranks. And you’ll probably be over the desire for the excitement, too. Of course, the share of stock is another thing.”</p>
			<p>“You aren’t just countin’ down, captain,” Max said, an almost surly overtone in his voice. “You don’t know what it’s like being born with no more common stock shares than a Mid-Lower.”</p>
			<p>Joe held his peace, sipping at his drink, taking this one more slowly. He let his eyebrows rise to encourage the other to go on.</p>
			<p>Max said doggedly, “Sure, they call it People’s Capitalism and everybody gets issued enough shares to insure him a basic living all the way from the cradle to the grave, like they say. But let me tell you, you’re a Middle and you don’t realize how basic the basic living of a Lower can be.”</p>
			<p>Joe yawned. If he hadn’t been so tired, there would have been more amusement in the situation.</p>
			<p>Max was still dogged. “Unless you can add to those shares of stock, it’s pretty drab, captain. You wouldn’t know.”</p>
			<p>Joe said, “Why don’t you work? A Lower can always add to his stock by working.”</p>
			<p>Max stirred in indignity. “Work? Listen, sir, that’s just one more field that’s been automated right out of existence. Category Food Preparation, Sub-division Cooking, Branch Chef. Cooking isn’t left in the hands of slobs who might drop a cake of soap into the soup. It’s done automatic. The only new changes made in cooking are by real top experts, almost scientists like. And most of them are Uppers, mind you.”</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser sighed inwardly. So his find in batmen wasn’t going to be as wonderful as all that, after all. The man might have been born into the food preparation category from a long line of chefs, but evidently he knew precious little about his field. Joe might have suspected. He himself had been born into Clothing Category, Sub-division Shoes, Branch Repair⁠—Cobbler⁠—a meaningless trade since shoes were no longer repaired but discarded upon showing signs of wear. In an economy of complete abundance, there is little reason for repair of basic commodities. It was high time the government investigated category assignment and reshuffled and reassigned half the nation’s population. But then, of course, was the question of what to do with the technologically unemployed.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Max was saying, “The only way I could figure on a promotion to a higher caste, or the only way to earn stock shares, was by crossing categories. And you know what that means. Either Category Military, or Category Religion and I sure as Zen don’t know nothing about religion.”</p>
			<p>Joe said mildly, “Theoretically, you can cross categories into any field you want, Max.”</p>
			<p>Max snorted. “Theoretically is right … sir. You ever heard about anybody born a Lower, or even a Middle like yourself, cross categories to, say, some Upper category like banking?”</p>
			<p>Joe chuckled. He liked this peppery little fellow. If Max worked out as well as Joe thought he might, there was a possibility of taking him along to the next fracas.</p>
			<p>Max was saying, “I’m not saying anything against the old time way of doing things or talking against the government, but I’ll tell you, captain, every year goes by it gets harder and harder for a man to raise his caste or to earn some additional stock shares.”</p>
			<p>The applejack had worked enough on Joe for him to rise against one of his pet peeves. He said, “That term, the old time way, is strictly Telly talk, Max. We don’t do things <i>the old time way</i>. No nation in history ever has⁠—with the possible exception of Egypt. Socio-economics are in a continual flux and here in this country we no more do things in the way they did fifty years ago, than fifty years ago they did them the way the American Revolutionists outlined back in the Eighteenth Century.”</p>
			<p>Max was staring at him. “I don’t get that, sir.”</p>
			<p>Joe said impatiently, “Max, the politico-economic system we have today is an outgrowth of what went earlier. The welfare state, the freezing of the status quo, the Frigid Fracas between the West-world and the Sov-world, industrial automation until useful employment is all but needless⁠—all these things were to be found in embryo more than fifty years ago.”</p>
			<p>“Well, maybe the captain’s right, but you gotta admit, sir, that mostly we do things the old way. We still got the Constitution and the two-party system and⁠—”</p>
			<p>Joe was wearying of the conversation now. You seldom ran into anyone, even in Middle caste, the traditionally professional class, interested enough in such subjects to be worth arguing with. He said, “The Constitution, Max, has got to the point of the Bible. Interpret it the way you wish, and you can find anything. If not, you can always make a new amendment. So far as the two-party system is concerned, what effect does it have when there are no differences between the two parties? That phase of pseudo-democracy was beginning as far back as the 1930s when they began passing State laws hindering the emerging of new political parties. By the time they were insured against a third party working its way through the maze of election laws, the two parties had become so similar that elections became almost as big a farce as over in the Sov-world.”</p>
			<p>“A farce?” Max ejaculated indignantly, forgetting his servant status. “That means not so good, doesn’t it? Far as I’m concerned, election day is tops. The one day a Lower is just as good as an Upper. The one day how many shares you got makes no difference. Everybody has everything.”</p>
			<p>“Sure, sure, sure,” Joe sighed. “The modern equivalent of the Roman Bacchanalia. Election day in the West-world when no one, for just that one day, is freer than anyone else.”</p>
			<p>“Well, what’s wrong with that?” The other was all but belligerent. “That’s the trouble with you Middles and Uppers, you don’t know how it is to be a Lower and⁠—”</p>
			<p>Joe snapped suddenly, “I was born a Mid-Lower myself, Max. Don’t give me that nonsense.”</p>
			<p>Max gaped at him, utterly unbelieving.</p>
			<p>Joe’s irritation fell away. He held out his glass. “Get us a couple of more drinks, Max, and I’ll tell you a story.”</p>
			<p>By the time the fresh drink came, Joe Mauser was sorry he’d made the offer. He thought back. He hadn’t told anyone the Joe Mauser story in many a year. And, as he recalled, the last time had been when he was well into his cups, on an election day at that, and his listener had been a Low-Upper, a hereditary aristocrat, one of the one per cent of the upper strata of the nation. Zen! How the man had laughed. He’d roared his amusement till the tears ran.</p>
			<p>However, Joe said, “Max, I was born in the same caste you were⁠—average father, mother, sisters and brothers. They subsisted on the basic income guaranteed from birth, sat and watched Telly for an unbelievable number of hours each day, took trank to keep themselves happy. And thought I was crazy because I didn’t. Dad was the sort of man who’d take his belt off to a child of his who questioned such school taught slogans as <i>What was good enough for Daddy is good enough for me</i>.</p>
			<p>“They were all fracas fans, of course. As far back as I can remember the picture is there of them gathered around the Telly, screaming excitement.” Joe Mauser sneered, uncharacteristically.</p>
			<p>“You don’t sound much like you’re in favor of your trade, captain,” Max said.</p>
			<p>Joe came to his feet, putting down his still half-full glass. “I’ll make this epic story short, Max. As you said, the two actually valid methods of rising above the level in which you were born are in the Military and Religious Categories. Like you, even I couldn’t stomach the latter.”</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser hesitated, then finished it off. “Max, there have been few societies that man has evolved that didn’t allow in some manner for the competent or sly, the intelligent or the opportunist, the brave or the strong, to work his way to the top. I don’t know which of these I personally fit into, but I rebel against remaining in the lower categories of a stratified society. Do I make myself clear?”</p>
			<p>“Well, no sir, not exactly.”</p>
			<p>Joe said flatly, “I’m going to fight my way to the top, and nothing is going to stand in the way. Is that clearer?”</p>
			<p>“Yessir,” Max said, taken aback.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
