<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 12</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XII</h2>
			<p>Freddy Soligen had been miraculously saved from the physical beating taken by Joe Mauser in the crash. The pilot, sitting so close before him, cushioned with his own body that of the Telly reporter.</p>
			<p>For that matter, he had been saved the financial disaster as well, save for that amount he had contributed to the campaign to increase Mauser’s stature in the eyes of the buffs. His Category Communications superiors had not even charged him for the cost of the equipment he had jettisoned from the glider during the flight, nor that which had been destroyed in the crash. If anything, his reputation with his higher-ups was probably better than ever. He’d been in there pitching, as a Telly reporter, right up until the end when the situation had completely pickled.</p>
			<p>All that he had lost was his dream. It had been so close to the grasping. He could almost have tasted the sweetness of victory. Joe Mauser, at the ultimate top of the hero-heap. Joe Mauser accepting bounces in both rank and caste. And then, Joe Mauser being properly thankful and helpful to Freddy and Sam Soligen, in their turn. So near the realization of the dream.</p>
			<p>He entered his house wearily, finally free of all the ridiculous questioning of the commission and the courts martial of Mauser and Cogswell, and Flaubert, Hideka and their commander, General McCord. All had been found guilty, though in different degrees. Using weapons of warfare which postdated 1900. Than which there was no greater crime between nations.</p>
			<p>He tossed the brief case he had carried to a table, and made his way to the living room, heading for the auto-bar and some straight spirits.</p>
			<p>A voice said, “Hi, Papa.”</p>
			<p>He looked up, not immediately recognizing the Category Military, Rank Private, before him.</p>
			<p>Then he said weakly, “Sam!” His legs gave way, and he sat down abruptly on the couch which faced the wall which was the Telly screen.</p>
			<p>The boy said, awkwardly, “Surprise, Papa!”</p>
			<p>His father said, very slowly, “What … in … Zen … are … you … doing … in … that … outfit?”</p>
			<p>Sam grinned ruefully, albeit proudly. “Aw, it would’ve taken a century for me to make full priest, Papa. The only way to do is like Major Mauser. You didn’t know this, but, I’ve been following the fracases all along. Especially when you were the reporter. I’ve watched every fracas you’ve covered for years. I guess you know I’m pretty proud of you.”</p>
			<p>“Sam! What are you doing in that uniform! Answer me!”</p>
			<p>The boy flushed. “I’m old enough, Papa. I switched categories. I’ve signed up with Chrysler-Ford in their fracas with Hovercar Sports. They’re taking me on as infantryman.”</p>
			<p>“Infantryman?” Freddy winced, and closed his eyes. “Listen, boy, where’d you get the idea that⁠—” He started over again. “But all your life I’ve given you the inside on the Category Military, Sam. All your life. No trank in our home. No watching the Telly day in and out. You’ve gone to <i>school</i>. More than I ever did. You were going to be a Temple priest⁠—”</p>
			<p>Sam sat down too, vaguely surprised at this father’s reaction. “Aw, Papa, everybody’s a fracas buff now. Everybody. You can’t get away from it. I … well, I want to be like Major Mauser. Get so all the fans know me, want my autograph, all that. And all the excitement of being in a fracas, getting in the dill, and all. I just want to be like the other fellas, Papa.”</p>
			<p>Freddy could only stare at him.</p>
			<p>Sam tried to explain. “Shucks, it was really you that made me want to become a mercenary. You’re the best Telly reporter of them all. When <i>you</i> cover a fracas, Papa, you really do it. You can see <i>everything</i>.” He shook his head in admiration. “Gosh, you really feel the emotion. It’s the most exciting thing in the world.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, son,” Freddy Soligen said emptily. “I suppose it is.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
