<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 15</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XV</h2>
			<p>Budapest, basically, had changed little over half a millennium.</p>
			<p>The Danube, seldom blue except when seen through the eyes of a twosome between whom spark has recently been struck, still wandered its way dividing the old, old town of Pest from the still older town of Buda. Where the stream widens there is room for the one hundred and twelve acres of Margitsziget, or Margaret Island to the West-world. Down through the ages, through Celts and Romans, Slavs and Hungs, Turks and Magyars, none have been so gross as to use Margitsziget for other than a park.</p>
			<p>Buda, lying to the west of the Danube, is of rolling hills and bluffs and of ancient towers, fortresses, castles and walls which have suffered through a hundred wars, a score of revolutions. It dominates the younger, more dynamic, Pest which stretches out on the flat plains to the east so that though you stand on the Hármashatárhegy hill of Buda and strain your eyes, you are hard put to find the furtherest limits of Pest.</p>
			<p>The jetport was on the outskirts of Pest, and the craft carrying Nadine Haer, Joseph Mauser and Max Mainz, settled in for a gentle landing, the autopilot more delicate far than human eye served by human hand.</p>
			<p>Max, his eyes glued to the window, said, “Well, gee, it don’t look much different than a lotta the other towns we passed over.”</p>
			<p>Nadine looked at him and laughed. She alone of the three of them had ever been outside the boundaries of the West-world having attended several international medical conventions. Over the years, the Frigid Fracas had laid its chill on tourism, so that now travel between West-world and Sov-world was all but unknown, and even visiting the Neut-world was considered a bit far out and somewhat suspect of going beyond the old time way of doing things⁠—even among the Uppers. Securing a passport for a Middle’s trip, not to speak of a Lower’s, involved such endless bureaucratic red tape as to be nonsensical.</p>
			<p>Nadine said to Joe’s batman, “What did you expect, Max?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t know, Miss Haer. I mean, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Haer. Kind of gloomier, like. Shucks, I’ve seen this here town on Telly a dozen times.”</p>
			<p>“And seeing is believing,” Joe muttered cynically. “It looks as though we have a reception committee.” He looked at Nadine. “Are we supposed to know each other?”</p>
			<p>She shrugged and made a moue. “It would be somewhat strange if we didn’t, seeing that we flew over in the same aircraft, and were the only passengers to come this far.”</p>
			<p>He nodded and as the plane came to a halt, helped her from her chair, even as the plane’s ladder slipped out and touched to the ground.</p>
			<p>Joe grunted and said, as though to himself, “You realize that for all practical purposes there hasn’t been any improvement in aircraft for a generation?”</p>
			<p>Nadine looked at him from the side of her eyes, even as they descended. “That’s what I keep telling you, Joe. We’ve become ossified. When a society, afraid of change, adopts a policy of maintaining the <i>status quo</i> at any cost, progress is arrested. Progress <i>means</i> change.”</p>
			<p>He grinned at her. “Sure, sure, sure. Please, no more lectures, teacher. Let what’s already in my head stew a while.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>On the ground, Nadine was met by one contingent from the Embassy and from the Sov-world authorities, and Joe and Max by another. Joe became occupied, hardly more than noticing that she had been whisked away in a hoverlimousine, ornately bedecked with official flags and stars.</p>
			<p>Joe, no longer holding military rank, in spite of his mission, was in mufti, and restrained himself from returning the salute when greeted by two fresh young lieutenants from the Embassy and a be-medaled lieutenant colonel in Sov-world uniform, whose tight-waisted tunic reminded Joe of that worn by Colonel Lajos Arpád, the military attaché Joe had come across twice in West-world fracases, and who Frank Hodgson had branded an espionage agent. Joe swore again, inwardly, that these Hungarian officers must wear girdles under their uniforms, and wondered vaguely if they did so in combat.</p>
			<p>The lieutenants, who could have been twins, so alike were they in size, bright smiling faces, uniform and words of welcome, saluted Joe, shook hands, and then turned to introduce him to the Sov-world officer.</p>
			<p>One of them said, “Major Mauser, may we present you to Lieutenant Bela Kossuth of the Pink Army?”</p>
			<p>They were, evidently using Joe’s old title of rank, as if he were retired rather than dismissed from the Category Military. It meant little to Joe Mauser. The Sov officer clicked his heels, bowed from the waist, extended his hand to be shaken. His waist might be pinched in like that of a girl of the Nineteenth Century, but his hand was dry and firm.</p>
			<p>“The fame of Joseph Mauser has penetrated to the Proletarian Paradise,” he said, his voice conveying sincerity.</p>
			<p>Joe shook and said, “Pink Army? I thought you called it⁠—”</p>
			<p>The colonel was indicating a hoverlimousine with a sweeping gesture that would have seemed overly graceful, had not Joe felt the grip of the man only a moment earlier. Kossuth interrupted him politely, “The plane was a trifle late and the banquet we have prepared awaits us, major. A multitude of my fellow officers are anxious to meet the famed Joseph Mauser. Would it surprise you to know that I have replayed, a score of times, your celebrated holding action on the Louisiana Military Reservation? Zut! Unbelievable. With but a single company of men!”</p>
			<p>Joe was looking at him blankly. <i>Celebrated!</i> Joe couldn’t but remember the fracas the mincing Hungarian was talking about. When the front had collapsed, Joe, then a captain, had held his position in the swamps while his superiors were supposedly reforming behind him, actually while they frantically tried to reach terms with the enemy.</p>
			<p>One of the West-world lieutenants laughed at Joe’s expression. “You’re going to have to get used to the fact that there’re as many fracas buffs over here, sir, as there are back home.”</p>
			<p>The Sov colonel waggled a finger at him. “But, no, you misunderstand completely, Lieutenant Andersen. We <i>study</i> the bloody fracases of the West. Following the campaigns of such tacticians as your Marshal Stonewall Cogswell goes far toward the training of our own Pink Army in its, ah, fracases.”</p>
			<p>That brought up a dozen questions in Joe’s mind, but first he turned and indicated Max, who’d been standing behind, his eyes wide, and taking in the luxurious airport, the vehicles about it, the buildings, the airport workers, few in number though they be, the road leading to the city beyond.</p>
			<p>Joe said, “Gentlemen, may I present Max Mainz?”</p>
			<p>The faces of the lieutenants went blank, and one of them coughed as though apologetically.</p>
			<p>The Sov colonel looked from Joe to Max, and then back again, his face assuming that expression so well known to Joe for so very long. The aristocrat looking at one of lower class as though wondering what made the fellow tick. Kossuth said, “But surely this, ah, chap, is a servant, one of your, what do you call them, a <i>Lower</i>.”</p>
			<p>Max blinked unhappily and looked at Joe.</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser said evenly, “I had heard the Sov-world was the Utopia of the proletariat. However, gentlemen, Max Mainz is my friend as well as my … assistant.”</p>
			<p>The three officers murmured some things stiffly to Max, who, a Lower born, was not overly nonplused by the situation. Zen, he knew the three were Upper caste, what was Major Mauser getting into a tissy about? He was given a seat in the front, where the chauffeur would have once been, and the others took places in the rear, one of the lieutenants dialing the hovercar’s destination.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Joe Mauser said, “I am afraid my background is hazy, Colonel Kossuth. You mentioned the Pink Army. You also mentioned your own fracases. I knew you maintained an army, of course, but I thought the fracas was a West development, in fact, your military attachés are usually on the scornful side.”</p>
			<p>The two lieutenants grinned, but Kossuth said seriously, “Major, as always, nations which hold each other at arm’s length, use different terminology to say much the same thing. It need not be confusing, if one digs below to find reality. Perhaps, for a moment, we four can lower barriers enough for me to explain that whilst in the West-world you hold your fracases to”⁠—he began enumerating on his fingers⁠—“One, settle disputes between business competitors, or between corporations and unions. Two, to train soldiers for your defense requirements. Three, to keep bemused a potentially dangerous lower class. …”</p>
			<p>“I object to that, colonel,” one of the lieutenants said hotly.</p>
			<p>The Sov officer ignored him. “Four, to dispose of the more aggressive potential rebels, by allowing them to kill each other off in the continual combat.”</p>
			<p>“That, sir, is simply not true,” the lieutenant blurted. Joe couldn’t remember if he was Andersen or Dickson, even their names were similar.</p>
			<p>Joe said, evenly, “And your alternative?”</p>
			<p>The Hungarian shrugged. “The Proletarian Paradise maintains two armies, major. One of veterans, for defense against potential foreign foes, and named the Glorious Invincible Red Army⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Or, the Red Army, for short,” one of the lieutenants murmured dryly.</p>
			<p>“… And the other composed of less experienced proletarians and their techno-intellectual, and sometimes even Party, officers. This is our Pink Army.”</p>
			<p>“Wait a moment,” Joe said. “What’s a proletarian?”</p>
			<p>The lieutenant who had protested the Sov officer’s summation of the reasons for the West-world fracases, laughed dryly.</p>
			<p>Kossuth stared at Joe. “You <i>are</i> poorly founded in the background of the Sov-world, major.”</p>
			<p>Joe said, “Deliberately, Colonel Kossuth. When I learned of my assignment, I deliberately avoided cramming unsifted information. I decided it would be more desirable to get my information at the source, uncontaminated by our own West-world propaganda.”</p>
			<p>One of the stiff-necked twins, both of whom Joe was beginning to find a bit <i>too</i> stereotyped West-world adherents, said, “Sir, I must protest. The West does not utilize propaganda.”</p>
			<p>“Of course not,” Kossuth said, taking his turn at a dry tone. He said to Joe, “I admire your decision. Obviously, a correct one. Major, a proletarian is, well, you could say, ah⁠—”</p>
			<p>“A Low-Lower,” Andersen or Dickson said.</p>
			<p>“Not exactly,” the Sov protested. “Let us put it this way. Marx once wrote that when true Socialism had arrived, the formula would be from each according to his abilities and to each according to his needs. Unhappily, due to the fact that the Proletarian Paradise is surrounded by potential enemies, we have not as yet established this formula. Instead, it is now from each according to his abilities and to each according to his contribution. Consequently, the most useful members of our society are drawn into the ranks of the Party, and, contributing the most, are most highly rewarded. The Party consists of somewhat less than one percent of the population.”</p>
			<p>“And is for all practical purposes, hereditary,” Anderson or Dickson said.</p>
			<p>Kossuth, in indignation, parroted, unknowingly, the lieutenant’s earlier words. “That, sir, is simply not true.”</p>
			<p>Joe said, soothing over the ruffled waters, “And the … what did you call them … techno-intellectuals?”</p>
			<p>“They are the second most useful members of society. Our technicians, scientists⁠—although many of these are members of the Party, of course⁠—teachers, artists, Pink and Red Army officers, and so forth.”</p>
			<p>Max looked around from the front seat. “Well, gee, that sounds just about like Uppers, Middles and Lowers to me.”</p>
			<p>Joe Mauser cleared his throat and said to the Hungarian who was glaring at Max. “And the Pink Army?”</p>
			<p>But Kossuth bit out to Max, “Don’t be silly, my man. There are no classes in the Proletarian Paradise.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” Max said, “and back in the West-world we got People’s Capitalism and the people own the corporations. Yeah.”</p>
			<p>“That’ll be all, Max,” Joe said, getting in before the two lieutenants could snap something at the fiesty little man. Joe had already decided that the lieutenants were both Uppers, and was somewhat surprised at their lowly rank.</p>
			<p>Kossuth brought his attention back to Joe. “We’re almost to our destination, Major Mauser. However, briefly, some of the more recent additions to the Sov-world, particularly in the more backward areas of southern Asia, have not quite adjusted to the glories of the Proletarian Paradise.”</p>
			<p>Both of the lieutenants chuckled softly.</p>
			<p>Kossuth said, “So it is found necessary to dispatch punitive expeditions against them. A current such expedition is in the Kunlun Mountains in that area once known as Sinkiang to the north, Tibet to the south. Kirghiz and Kazakhs nomads in the region persist in rejecting the Party and its program. The Pink Army is in the process of eliminating these reactionary elements.”</p>
			<p>Joe was puzzled. He said, “You mean, in all these years you haven’t been able to clean up such small elements of enemies?”</p>
			<p>Kossuth said stuffily, “My dear major, please recall that we are limited to the use of weapons pre-1900 in accord with the Universal Disarmament Pact. To be blunt, it is quite evident that foreign elements smuggle weapons into Tibet and other points where rebellion flares, so that on some occasions our Pink Army is confronted with enemies better armed than themselves. These bandits, of course, are not under the jurisdiction of the International Commission and while we are limited, they are not.”</p>
			<p>“Besides,” one of the lieutenants said, “They don’t want to clean them up. If they did, the Sov equivalent of the fracas buff wouldn’t be able to spend his time at the Telly watching the progress of the Glorious Pink Army against the reactionary foe.”</p>
			<p>Joe, under his breath, parroted the words of the Sov officer. “That, sir, is simply not true.”</p>
			<p>Max, who had largely been staring bug-eyed out the window at the passing scene, said, “Hey, the car’s stopping. Is this it?”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
