<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 17</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
			<p>It was a free evening for Joe, but one that Nadine had found necessary to devote to her medical duties. Max had been gushing about a cabaret in Buda, a place named the Bécsikapu where the wine flowed as wine can flow only in the Balkans and where the gypsy music was as only gypsy music can be. Max had developed a tolerance for wine after only two or three attempts at what they locally called Sot and which he didn’t consider exactly beer.</p>
			<p>Joe said, only half interested, “For proletarians, Party members, or what?”</p>
			<p>Max said, “Well, gee, I guess it’s most proletarians, but in these little places, like, you can see almost anybody. Couple of nights ago when I took off I even seen a Russkie field marshal there. And was he drenched.”</p>
			<p>Joe was at loose ends. Besides, this was a facet of Budapest life he had yet to investigate. The intimate night spots, frequented by all strata of Sov society.</p>
			<p>He came to a quick decision. “O.K., Max. Let’s give it a look. Possibly it’ll turn out to be a place I can take Nadine. She’s a bit weary of the overgrown glamour spots they have here. They’re more ostentatious than anything you find even in Greater Washington.”</p>
			<p>Max said, in his fiesty belligerence, “Does that mean better?”</p>
			<p>Joe grunted amusement at the little man, even as he took up his jacket. “No, it doesn’t,” he said, “and take the chip off your shoulder. When you were back home you were continually beefing about what a rugged go you had being a Mid-Lower in the West-world. Now that you’re over here the merest suggestion that all is not peaches at home and you’re ready to fight.”</p>
			<p>Max said, his ugly face twisted in a grimace, even as he helped Joe with the jacket. “Well, all these characters over here are up to their tonsils in curd about the West. They think everybody’s starving over there because they’re unemployed. And they think the Lowers are, like, ground down, and all. And that there’s lots of race troubles, and all.”</p>
			<p>Even as they left the apartment, Joe was realizing how much closer Max had already got to the actual people, than either he or Nadine. But he was still amused. He said, “And wasn’t that largely what you used to think about things over here, when you were back home? How many starving have you seen?”</p>
			<p>Max grunted. “Well, you know, that’s right. They’re not as bad off as I thought. Some of those Telly shows I used to watch was kind of exaggerated, like.”</p>
			<p>Joe said absently, “If international fracases would be won by newspapers and Telly reporters, the Sovs would have lost the Frigid Fracas as far back as when they still called it the Cold War.”</p>
			<p>The Bécsikapu turned out to be largely what Max had reported and Joe expected. A rather small cellar cabaret, specializing in Hungarian wines and such nibbling delicacies as túrós csusza, the cheese gnocchis; but specializing as well or even more so in romantic atmosphere dominated by heartstring touching of gypsy violins, as musicians strolled about quietly, pausing at this table or that to lean so close to a feminine ear that the lady was all but caressed. It came to Joe that there was more of this in the Sov world than at home. The Sov proletarians evidently spent less time at their Telly sets than did the Lowers in the West-world.</p>
			<p>They found a table, crowded though the nightspot was, and ordered a bottle of chilled Feteasca. It wasn’t until the waiter had recorded the order against Joe’s international credit identification, that it was realized he and Max were of the West. So many non-Hungarians, from all over the Sov-world, were about Budapest that the foreigner was an accepted large percentage of the man-in-the street.</p>
			<p>Max said, making as usual no attempt to lower his voice. “Well, look there. There’s a sample of them not being as advanced, like, as the West-world. A waiter! Imagine using waiters in a beer joint. How come they don’t have auto-bars and all?”</p>
			<p>“Sure, sure, sure,” Joe said dryly. “And canned music, and a big Telly screen, instead of a live show. Maybe they prefer it this way, Max. You can possibly carry automation too far.”</p>
			<p>“Naw,” Max protested, taking a full half glass of his wine down in one gulp. “Don’t you see how this takes up people’s time? All these waiters and musicians and all could be home, relaxing, like.”</p>
			<p>“And watching Telly and sucking on tranks,” Joe said, not really interested and largely arguing for the sake of conversation.</p>
			<p>A voice from the next table said coldly in accented Anglo-American, “You don’t seem to appreciate our entertainment, gentlemen of the west.”</p>
			<p>Joe looked at the source of the words. There were three officers, only one in the distinctive pinch-waisted uniform of the Hungarians, a captain. The other two wore the Sov epaulets which proclaimed them majors, but Joe didn’t place the nationality of the uniforms. There were several bottles upon the table, largely empty.</p>
			<p>Joe said carefully. “To the contrary, we find it most enjoyable, sir.”</p>
			<p>But Max had had two full glasses of the potent Feteasca and besides was feeling pleased and effervescent over his success in getting Joe Mauser, his idol, to spend a night on the town with him. He’d wanted to impress his superior with the extent to which he had get to know Budapest. Max said now, “We got places just as good as this in the West, and bigger too. Lots bigger. This joint wouldn’t hold more then fifty people.”</p>
			<p>The one who had spoken, one of the majors who wore the boots of the cavalryman, said, nastily, “Indeed? I recognize now that when I addressed you both as gentlemen, I failed to realize that in the West gentlemen are not selective of their company and allow themselves to wallow in the gutter with the dregs of their society.”</p>
			<p>The Hungarian captain said lazily, “Are you sure, Frol, that <i>either</i> of them are gentlemen? There seems to be a distinctive <i>odor</i> about the lower classes whether in the West-world or our own.”</p>
			<p>Joe came to his feet quietly.</p>
			<p>Max said, suddenly sobered, “Hey, major, sir … easy. It ain’t important.”</p>
			<p>Joe had picked up his glass of wine. With a gesture so easy as almost to be slow motion, he tossed it into the face of the foppish officer.</p>
			<p>The Hungarian, aghast, took up his napkin and began to brush the drink from his uniform, meanwhile sputtering to an extent verging on hysteria. The major who had been seated immediately to his right, fumbled in assistance, meanwhile staring at Joe as though he were a madman.</p>
			<p>The cavalryman, though, was of sterner stuff. In the back of his mind, Joe was thinking, even as the other seized a bottle by its long neck and broke off the base on the edge of the table, <i>Now this one’s from the Pink Army, an old pro, and a Russkie, sure as Zen made green apples</i>.</p>
			<p>The major came up, kicking a chair to one side. Joe hunched his shoulders forward, took up his napkin and with a quick double gesture, wrapped it twice around his left hand, which he extended slightly.</p>
			<p>The major came in, the jagged edges of the bottle advanced much as a sword. His face was working in rage, and Joe, outwardly cool, decided in the back of his mind that he was glad he’d never have to serve under this one. This one gave way to rage and temper when things were pickling and there was no room for such luxuries in a fracas.</p>
			<p>Max was yelling something from behind, something that didn’t come through in the bedlam that had suddenly engulfed the Bécsikapu.</p>
			<p>At the last moment, Joe suddenly struck out with his left leg, hooked with his foot the small table at which the three Sov officers had been sitting and twisted quickly, throwing it to the side and immediately into the way of his enraged opponent.</p>
			<p>The other swore as his shins banged the side and was thrown slightly forward, for a moment off balance.</p>
			<p>Joe stepped forward quickly, precisely, and his right chopped down and to the side of the other’s prominent jawbone. The Russkie, if Russkie he was, went suddenly glazed of eye. His doubling forward, originally but an attempt to regain balance, continued and he fell flat on his face.</p>
			<p>Joe spun around. “Come on, Max, let’s get out of here. I doubt if we’re welcome.” He didn’t want to give the other two time to organize themselves and decide to attack. Defeat the two, he and Max might be able to accomplish, but Joe wasn’t at all sure where the waiters would stand in the fray, nor anyone else in the small cabaret, for that matter.</p>
			<p>Max, at the peak of excitement now, yelled, “What’d you think I been saying? Come on, follow me. There’s a rear door next to the rest room.”</p>
			<p>Waiters and others were converging on them. Joe Mauser didn’t wait to argue, he took Max’s word for it and hurried after that small worthy, going round and about the intervening tables and chairs like an old time broken field football player.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
